---
layout: post
title: Go over Nabla- App Safety meets Host Isolation
---

This blog presents how a Go application can be built and run as a nabla container.
We take an example of a web server application, part of the [nabla-demo-apps](https://github.com/nabla-containers/nabla-demo-apps) repository.
To enable/port Go over nabla, we also briefly present certain key modifications made to the Go runtime.



### Application Flow
The httpd example highlights nabla's support for go applications organized across multiple .go files, multiple packages, as well as third-party package imports from github.

In the sample code, the `main()` function in httpd.go, uses a utility function fromt the helper package (helper/process_args.go) to parse the commandline arguments. 
After some trivial commandline parsing, the webserver awaits HTTP GETs at port 3000 from the outside world.

Building this Go webserver as a Nabla container is pretty straightforward. 
[Dockerfile.nabla](https://github.com/nabla-containers/nabla-demo-apps/blob/master/go-httpd/Dockerfile.nabla) lists the steps required for a multi-stage build of the go app.
First, the app's source directory is added to the nabla-go-base image, which contains the Go runtime ported over Nabla (see Section 'Under the Covers'). 
This is followed by the usual `go get` of the dependencies.
After this, a generic [Makefile.goapp](https://github.com/nabla-containers/nabla-base-build/tree/master/go-base) (part of the base image itself) is triggered, which builds the go app as a static nabla binary.
The resulting binary then becomes the entrypoint of the go app nabla container, which can be run using the [`runnc`](https://github.com/nabla-containers/runnc) nabla-container runtime as `docker run -it --rm --runtime=runnc go-httpd-nabla`.


### Under the covers
The Nabla Go base is built on top of [gorump](https://github.com/deferpanic/gorump), a port of Go for the Rumprun unikernel (one of the Library OSes nabla supports).
Nabla currently supports Go-1.5.1 (one of the two versions ported by gorump).
Gorump modifies Go to add a new supported GOOS- "rumprun".
Although this enables running go applications as unikernel VMs, they can't be run as-is as a nabla container, unlike [python](https://github.com/nabla-containers/nabla-base-build/tree/master/python3-base) or [node](https://github.com/nabla-containers/nabla-base-build/tree/master/node-base) applications.

This happens because Go runtime's requirement on platform-specific Thread Local Storage (TLS), is at odds with host system interface nabla permits to offer increased container security.
Specifically, the Go runtime uses TLS to store a pointer to a 'G' structure that contains internal details of a particular Go routine (a nice description can be found [here](https://blog.altoros.com/golang-internals-part-3-the-linker-and-object-files.html)).
In AMD64, the TLS implementation translates to setting segment registers (FS/GS). The corresponding syscall to access these registers (`arch_prctl(ARCH_SET_FS,..)` in Linux, `_lwp_setprivate()` in BSD) is not part of the default nabla seccomp policy <sup>Other TLS implementations, such as modify_ldt() for i386 architectures, and set_thread_area(), would also require expanding nabla's seccomp policy to allow the respective syscalls.</sup>.
While it could be added, the resulting impact on system isolation would need to be explored, which is a non-trivial task.

Another alternative is to handle TLS in software (potentially at a performance cost).
Our port of Go on nabla uses this approach, by using the POSIX `pthread_setspecific()` interface (managed inside rumprun) to provide TLS to the Go runtime.


